User Interface (UI) Design is a design discipline focused on the visual elements of the interface, for example:

Layout: Where do elements appear on the screen?

Colors: What palette is used? What emotions do those colors evoke?

Typography: What typefaces are used? What do they communicate?

Interaction design: How do elements respond to user interaction?

Brand Identity: How do all of the visual elements come together to represent the brands vision?

Accessibility/Inclusivity: Does the interface work for as many people as possible?

Front-End Dev: Whats the code and technical backbone powering the interface?

User Experience (UX) Design describes the entire experience around a product or service, taking into account the user's emotional state, the context/environment, and the designed system or artifact.

From the 2000's onwards, UX is focused on systems design being as pleasant as possible for users.

User journey: The entire process surrounding use of a product, from the problem to be solved through the impact of the solution.

User research: Qualitative and quantitative research to put the user at the center of the design process.

Deliverables: Document the user experience and defined the workflows and features of a product or design, such as -

    Personas: Summaries of example and target users, generally based on a composite of user research.

    Journey maps: A timeline of user actions related to accomplishing a particular goal related to a product or design.

    Storyboards: A sequence of panels (often resembling a comic book) depicting a user story, chronologically.

    Prototypes: Iterative models, sketches or wireframes of a design, used to gather feedback and inform the final design.

5 Elements of UX Design - From Abstract to Concrete

Abstract:

Strategy - What problem is the product intended to solve? The user needs and buisness goals are decided.

Scope - What is the product that will be create to solve this problem? What features to build and the written and visual information to be included are decided.

Structure - How is the design organized, and how do interactions work? The strucure and organization of content and the interactive experience of the products are decided.

Skeleton - How is the information presented, and arranged?
The design of interface elements, how users move through a system, how information is presented to facilitate understanding are all decided. (Wireframing is often done at this stage, or at the next)

... to Concrete:

Surface - How does the product look and feel to users? 
What colors, typefaces, and UI is decided.